All right.
So that's our finger joint here.
What I'll do with this now is I think I should be able to take all of this if I select all of these
pieces go to my move tool press shift D and then click.
And now I can move these over and there's our next joint.
And one last joint.
I'm just going to select this one cube and press shift D and click and move it to the end.
I think I'm going to adjust this a bit.
I'd like to go into edge mode by hitting tab and going to control tab and then pressing the two key
to select edge mode.
I'm going to pull this in just a bit.
So this is the tip of the finger.
What am I to do is combine this part of the finger first some a select all of these pieces and to join
these objects together into one I'm going to press control J.
And now that joins this whole piece into one object.
So I'm going to call this I'll call this finger three.
And then I want to do the same thing for this I'm going it's like this and shift's select these and
press control J.
And for this I'll call this finger two.
And this piece up here I'll call finger one.
All right.
So now each of these pieces is its own object.
And now what we want to do is be able to rotate around this joint right here.
So if I selected this object to zoom in here and tab into edit mode and hit a to d select everything
what I need to do is select this piece just this piece and I'm going to snap the cursor to it.
So I'm going to hover over one of these edges and if you're in face mode you only need to hover over
one of the little dots on the object.
So I'll hover over one of those and I'm going to press the L key to select the linked components of
that object.
So it's only going to select.
Now that cylinder press shift s and I'll move the cursor to selected and that will snap the cursor to
the center of that object.
So now if I take this object and move its pivot point to the cursor that's where it will rotate from.
So I'm going with this selected in Object mode select Tools and go to set origin and origin to 3D cursor.
Now if I go to the rotate tool and rotate this it rotates at that joint.
So let's do the same thing to this one now.
So I will go into edit mode.
De-select everything.
I will hover over that cylinder and press the L key and then I'll press shift s and cursor to selected.
Now if I go back to object mode and click Set origin and origin to the cursor now it too will rotate
around that point.
Lastly let's do the same thing over here to this one except this time I'm going to select one face here
at the back and then press shift s cursor to selected and then set origin to 3D cursor.
So now this one rotates back here.
This one rotates back here and this one rotates back here.
Now ultimately we'll rig these so that won't be quite as important as to where the pivot point is.
But for now I just wanted to show you the logic behind rigging these fingers.
So now what we can do is parent this to this and this to this.
So what let's do is select the tip shift select the middle of the finger and press control P to bring
up the parent menu and we're going to parent to object.
So now if we just select that middle finger and rotate it it'll bring the tip of the finger along.
And in addition if we select the tip we can rotate it from there as well.
And I'm going to select the middle finger chefs select the finger one press control P and select object.
So now if we rotate around here we can rotate around here and rotate around here right.
All right so now let's bring that other layer back by pressing the shift key.
And that first layer.
And you noticed that the fingers kind of big and that's ok I can hit the s key and scale it down and
the move to move tool and begin moving this into place.
So as I said I'm going to move this right up into the sphere kind of like this and for now I'll go ahead
and rotate these just to see how they look.
Something like that.
So now that I have this one in place I'm just going to select these and duplicate it with shift D.
And now I'm going to move these into place
here's the new one here and I'll move this one into place so this one's a little going to be a little
smaller as the index finger.
I think I'd like to rotate it so and once I rotate it now it's probably going to be easier to put it
into place in local transform mode here so going to go down here to the global pull down menu and switch
the transform orientation to local.
And now I can rotate these a little easier and place them a little easier I think
now I think I'll switch back to global mode and select this one again and duplicate it with shift D
and move it over for the Pinki.
I'm going to just select that top part of the finger and then hit s and scale it down a bit and maybe
I'll switch back to a local mode to put it into place.
And lastly I'll grab this middle finger again and go back to global mode.
And one way to do that is to press the alt spacebar and that'll bring up the orientation menu.
So I'll switch to global again and I'm going to go ahead and duplicate click and then move this finger
around here so that it's the thumb
and I'll hit the alt space again to go to local orientation.
And work on this a bit and as I'm twisting this I've got some weirdness happening with the rotation.
What I need to do is just select that top bass part of the finger and then rotate from there and I should
get a better orientation.
And I think for the thumb I'm actually going to thicken it out.
So it's a little bit thicker than the rest.
The last thing I'll do here in this video is maybe work on this upper arm I'm not real happy with this.
And also Idda it appears that the forearm to me may be a little bit too short.
So a couple of things here let's work on first of all I think what I want to do is select these fingers
and the hand so I'm going to select finger one and these as well as this fear.
I believe the spheres the hands that change that to have and in the outline are here.
So I know what things are and this is why you begin labeling things up front because as your scene gets
more and more complex it gets harder and harder to keep track of what things are so select these fingers
and the hand and I'm just pressing the shift key and clicking on the individual elements here.
And what I'd like to do is bring this hand down some.
I feel like I feel like it needs to be a little bit farther down.
Oh and look as I moved this how they move in a very strange way that's because they're moving in their
local axes.
So I'll hit control or command Z to undo and I'll switch over to global.
Now I should be able to move these straight down.
So I feel like maybe the arm needs to be about that long.
I need to stretch this arm down.
But what I want to do is scale it from the top here so I'll hit tab to go into edit mode.
And now I'm going to press on it and so like this edge.
And once again what I'm going to do is place the cursor cursor to selected and now when I go back to
object mode what I can do is change my pivot point now from median to 3D cursor and if I choose that
3D cursor now I can scale from the point of the 3D cursor keeping the elbow in place and moving this
down to encompass the hand.
So for this I think I'll go into edit mode and press control r and I want to insert a couple of edge
loops here and I could just click once here to insert this edge loop and then do that do the whole process
again.
But you can also scroll the mouse wheel here to add edge loops.
So I'm going to scroll the mouse wheel until I get to three edges and then click and then click again.
And now I'm just going to use these edges press alt and click this edge begins nailing these out.
But look at what I'm doing.
I'm actually scaling from the cursor so I don't want to do that.
I'm going to come back here to the pivot point and change that pivot point to the median point again.
And now when I select that edge and hit the esky I can scale that out a bit so I'm going to just scale
these out a bit to make that a little bit more beefy.
There we go.
Something like that.
All right in the next portion of the course we'll begin working on the legs.